.Dd January 2026
.Dt DYNAMIC-ABHI 1
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME
.Nm dynamic-abhi
.Nd a simple Unix-like shell supporting pipes and I/O redirection
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm dynamic-abhi
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a minimal interactive shell implemented in C.
It allows the user to execute external commands using
.Xr fork 2 ,
.Xr execvp 3 ,
and supports piping and basic input/output redirection.

The shell repeatedly displays a prompt and waits for user input.
Commands entered are parsed, executed in child processes, and can
be chained using pipes.

.Sh FEATURES
.Bl -bullet
.It
Execution of external commands available in the system PATH
.It
Pipelining of commands using the pipe operator (`|`)
.It
Input redirection using `<`
.It
Output redirection using `>`
.It
Multiple commands executed sequentially in a pipeline
.El

.Sh SYNTAX
The general syntax supported by the shell is:

.Bd -literal
command [arguments] [ < input_file ] [ > output_file ]
.Ed

Multiple commands may be chained using pipes:

.Bd -literal
command1 | command2 | command3
.Ed

Redirection can be used on individual commands within a pipeline.

.Sh BUILT-IN COMMANDS
The following built-in commands are supported:

.Bl -tag -width "exit"
.It Ic exit
Terminates the shell session.
.El

.Sh IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
.Nm
uses the following system calls and mechanisms:

.Bl -bullet
.It
.Xr fork 2
to create child processes
.It
.Xr execvp 3
to execute commands
.It
.Xr pipe 2
to establish inter-process communication
.It
.Xr dup2 2
to redirect standard input and output
.It
.Xr wait 2
to synchronize parent and child processes
.El

Whitespace trimming is performed to ensure correct parsing of commands.
Arguments are tokenized using space delimiters.

.Sh LIMITATIONS
.Bl -bullet
.It
No support for background execution (`&`)
.It
No job control or signal handling
.It
No environment variable expansion
.It
Maximum number of arguments is limited
.It
Built-in commands are minimal
.El

.Sh EXAMPLES
Execute a simple command:

.Bd -literal
Dynamic Abhi:~$ ls
.Ed

Use output redirection:

.Bd -literal
Dynamic Abhi:~$ ls > files.txt
.Ed

Use input redirection:

.Bd -literal
Dynamic Abhi:~$ sort < data.txt
.Ed

Use pipes:

.Bd -literal
Dynamic Abhi:~$ ls | grep ".c" | wc -l
.Ed

.Sh FILES
None.

.Sh EXIT STATUS
The shell exits with status 0 when terminated normally using
.Ic exit .
Errors during command execution are reported using standard error output.

.Sh AUTHOR
Written by Abhijeet Kumar Kuila.

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr fork 2 ,
.Xr execvp 3 ,
.Xr pipe 2 ,
.Xr dup2 2 ,
.Xr wait 2
